Avoiding Rust Deadlocks via Lifetime Visualization (#352)
w3f/General-Grants-Program: grants/speculative/visualize_rust_lifetime.md

| 1. | Detecting Conflicting Locks  | We will implement a detector that can identify deadlocks due to locks in conflicting orders through analyzing the MIR of Rust programs.|  
| 2. | Detecting Misuse of Mutex and Channel | We will implement a detector to identify deadlocks due to errors when using a mutex together with a channel. |  
| 3. | Detecting Misuse of Mutex and Conditional Variable | We will implement a detector to identify deadlocks due to mistakes when using a mutex together with a conditional variable. | 
| 4. | Docker | We will provide a dockerfile to demonstrate the full functionality of this component. |

### Milestone 2 — Integrate the bug detection functionalities into RLS 
* **Estimated Duration:** 1 month

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | Apache 2.0 |

> | 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic tutorial that explains how to install and use the changed RLS.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic tutorial that explains how to install and use the changed rust-analyzer.  |
```

> | 0c. | Testing Guide | We will also use the 10 toy programs designed in the last milestone to test whether the bug detection capability is successfully integrated into RLS. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0c. | Testing Guide | We will also use the 10 toy programs designed in the last milestone to test whether the bug detection capability is successfully integrated into rust-analyzer. | 
```

| 1. | Extend Language Server Protocol (LSP) | We will extend LSP to contain the key information related to deadlocks (e.g., the start and the end of a critical section, blocking operations in a critical section).|  

> | 2. | Change RLS to emit MIR  | We will change the build module of RLS to emit MIR for our bug detection functionalities. |  

Reviewer: Not sure whether "build module" makes sense here.

```suggestion
| 2. | Change rust-analyzer to emit MIR  | We will change the build module of rust-analyzer to emit MIR for our bug detection functionalities. |  
```

> | 3. | Conduct bug detection in RLS | We will change the analysis crate of RLS to execute the code for bug detection and change the server module to send the detection results out. |  

Reviewer: Does rust-analyzer have an analysis crate and a server module, or otherwise what would be the equivalent here?

```suggestion
| 3. | Conduct bug detection in rust-analyzer | We will change the analysis crate of rust-analyzer to execute the code for bug detection and change the server module to send the detection results out. |  
```
